(c) Each competitor in all diving competitions is entirely responsible for the
    accuracy of the statements on this list.
(d) This list of dives must be signed by the competitor if the competition is not
    being run electronically. The signed portion of the score sheet shall be
    considered the competitor's official list of dives. Failure to sign or check off
    the list of dives shall be an indication that the diver agrees with the list and
    plans to perform the dives as listed.
(e) Divers may change the dives in their dive list without penalty up to the time
    specified by the meet information the day before the corresponding event.
    After this pre-described deadline, the diver may still make changes up to
    three hours prior to the start of the first event each day of competition with
    a penalty as prescribed elsewhere in these rules. By submitting changes
    online the diver confirms the changes are made and assumes responsibility
    for the accuracy of the dive list.
(f) Dive sheets submitted after the sheet entry deadline and before the three-
    hour deadline will be considered late entries. Late entry divers may still
    compete by paying a fine as determined by the Board of Directors and, at
    the discretion of the meet director, dive first in the diving order. Late entry
    fees should be made payable as directed by the Meet Director.
(g) In all other diving meets, the Meet Directors, at their own discretion, may
    arrange for a deadline for turning in diving lists different from that stated
    above, for the convenience of meet procedure and/or the Meet Secretary.
    The deadline should not be less than one hour before the particular event
    and in all cases this information must be clearly stated on the entry
    information form.
(h) When the next session of an event is on the same day, the divers in the
    next session may submit new lists of dives within 30 minutes of the end of
    the completion of the previous session.
(i) When the finals are conducted on a later date, new lists of dives may be
    submitted up until three hours prior to the start of the finals. If a new list
    of dives is not submitted by a diver within the time provided, the diver shall
    perform the same dives performed in the previous session.

  602.19 Correction of Dive Sheets
    Changes to dive sheets are permitted at no charge prior to the deadline
    communicated by the Meet Host. Changes may be made after the deadline
    until three hours prior to the scheduled start of the event with a fee set
    forth by the USA Diving Board of Directors. In person and/or online dive
    changes are permitted.

  602.20 Awards and Team Scoring
(a) Medals will be awarded to the top three finishers in each event at Region
    Championships, Zone Championships and the USA Diving National
    Championships. In junior events only, places 4-12 may also receive medals
    or an item of recognition.
(b) At each Region Championship, a team award will be given to the team that
    scores the most combined points. Additional awards may be given at the
    discretion of the meet director.
(c) At each Zone Championships, a team award will be given to the team with
    the most combined (boys & girls) points. Additional awards may be given
    at the discretion of the meet director.




                                     ~ 46 ~
(d) At the USA Diving Junior National Championships, the three teams with the
    most combined (boys & girls) points will receive team awards.
(e) Team points shall be awarded to the top 12 places in each event as follows:
    15-12-11-10- 9-8-7-6-4-3-2-1.
(f) In the event of a tie, the points allocated to the tied place shall be added to
    those allocated to the next place or places, the sum divided by the number
    of divers who have tied, and that amount added to the score for each team.
(g) Foreign divers are not eligible to earn team points. If such an athlete finishes
    in a scoring position, the team points and place shall drop down to the next
    highest-placing U.S. citizen athlete.

  602.21 Spring, Summer, or Winter National
  Championships
(a) USA Diving may conduct a USA Diving Spring, Summer, or Winter
    National Championship events to be determined at the discretion of the High
    Performance Department in consultation with the Committee for Competitive
    Excellence.
(b) The USA Diving Spring or Winter National Championship may include 1-
    meter and 3-meter springboard and 10-meter platform individual events,
    and 3- meter springboard and platform synchronized events, for men and
    women. Specific competitive requirements will be established by the High
    Performance Department and the Committee for Competitive Excellence.
(c) The USA Diving High Performance Department and the Committee for
    Competitive Excellence shall set specific criteria for competitor eligibility.
(d) In the event a corporate partnership is secured for the USA Diving National
    Championships meets any or all of these meets may bear the name of such
    partner, i.e., “The XYZ USA Diving National Championships.” The name will
    be approved by the CEO.
(e) All diving equipment so approved by the Committee Chair shall be inspected
    one week before the USA Diving National Championships by the meet
    director or an appointed representative. The facilities shall not be changed
    or altered after inspection except when a springboard is broken or should
    repair or modification be necessary.

  602.22 Invitational Meets

(a) Local meets may be modified to accommodate local conditions, preferences,
    limited facilities and personnel.
(b) Eligibility for participation is open to all USA Diving registered athletes in
    accordance with the USA Diving Bylaws.
(c) It is recommended that invitational meets be conducted as closely as
    possible to all the rules governing the USA Diving Championships.
(d) In Invitational meets, fees to be charged and any differences in the rules,
    such as the number of dives to be performed, the order of dives, the delivery
    of the diving list, or the number of finalists, must be clearly stated in the
    pre-meet information.
(e) In Invitational meets, Junior divers are permitted to compete in Senior
    events as long as they meet the competition requirements.




                                    ~ 47 ~
  602.23 Managing split board, split events, and
  cuts
(a) Meet Directors must make cuts at Region Championships if more than 40
    divers are registered in any 16-18 age group event. If the projected finish
    time of the meet runs past dark in outdoor pools, or unreasonably late into
    the evening, or if an unusual delay prevents timely completion of the meet,
    Meet Directors may impose cuts in the 16-18 events according to the
    following procedure:
    (1) If cuts are made, dives without limit of DD will be performed first,
         followed by voluntaries.
    (2) After completion of the dives without limit of DD, a cut to 24 divers will
         be made.
(b) Meet Directors may use the following forms of competition to reduce the
    number of divers per event to eliminate the need for cuts.
    (1) Split Boards: Athletes in affected events are randomly assigned to
         specific boards prior to the first day of training.
         (i) Each board will be run as separate events simultaneously.
         (ii) In the event there are more than 40 divers per board, even with
              the split board format, cuts must be made following the procedures
              in (f) above. In this case each board will cut to the top 24 divers.
    (2) Split Events: Athletes in the affected events are randomly assigned to
         two or more groups. Each group will run as a separate event.




                                    ~ 48 ~
PART SEVEN – COMPETITION ADMINISTRATION
           AND JUDGING
 Article 701 - Regulations for Competition
                Administration, Including
                Officiating Contests
    701.1 Good Standing as a Prerequisite for Service as
    an Official
  (a) Any individual serving as a judge or referee in USA Diving events must be
      a member in good standing with the organization as a coach or judge.
  (b) Meet Directors and Scoring Table Personnel and any other volunteers must
      meet the pre-requisites called upon by USA Diving to be on deck for
      competition.

    701.2 Appeals Process
  (a) Protest Against Judges' Awards
      (1) No protest can be made against the marks awarded by the judges.
  (b) The following can be appealed:
      (1) Unusual distractions impacting the diver’s performance – Examples
          may include unexpected weather conditions, sudden loud noises,
          blinding lights or flashes, or other unanticipated disturbances.
      (2) Referee’s perceived failure to apply the rules – A belief that the referee
          did not follow or enforce the competition rules and regulations
          correctly.
      (3) Meet management or operational concerns – Complaints regarding the
          organization or administration of the competition, such as scheduling,
          equipment setup, or facility conditions.
  (c) Timing of Appeals
      (1) Appeals for disturbances during a dive in a competition shall be made
          verbally by a diver or diver’s representative immediately after the
          execution of a dive, a round of dives, or a session of the competition
          to the Event Referee.
      (2) Appeals pertaining to the misrepresentation of rules by the Event
          Referee during a competition must be submitted to the Competition
          Head Referee within thirty (30) minutes after the conclusion of the
          event in which the situation occurred.
      (3) Appeals relating to meet management must be submitted to the Meet
          Director within one (1) hour after the conclusion of the last event of
          the day in which the situation occurred.
      (4) An appeal, the reason for which is known before the beginning of a
          contest, shall be made before the start of the contest.
  (d) Submission of Appeals.
      (1) For all appeals, an Appeal Form must be submitted to the Meet
          Director for record keeping purposes.
      (2) The appeal shall only be considered if it is accompanied by a deposit of
          five hundred (500) United States dollars.




                                      ~ 49 ~
    (3) The Meet Director will present the appeal to the Chair of the Jury
        of Appeal, who will review the appeal and determine its validity.
        (i) The Chair shall determine the validity as soon as reasonably
              possible following the appeal’s submission.
        (ii) The Chair’s decision regarding validity is final.
        (iii) If the Jury rules in favor of the appealing party, the deposit shall
              be returned to the appealing party, and the ensuing course of
              action shall be decided on a case-by-case basis.
        (iv) If the Jury rules against the appealing party, the deposit shall be
              forfeited.
(e) Jury of Appeal
    (1) For competition related appeals – the jury of appeal shall be comprised
        of the Competition Head Referee (Chair), Event Referee, and the Event
        Assistant Referee
    (2) For meet management related appeals – the jury of appeal shall be
        comprised of the Competition Head Referee (Chair), Meet Director, and
        one other event management representative.
    (3) The Competition Head Referee shall also designate a fourth
        individual who will act as a standby Jury of Appeal member if a selected
        Jury member must recuse himself/herself due to a conflict of interest
        (including, but not limited to, having business relations with or the
        same former team affiliation as an appealing party).
    (4) The Jury of Appeal may consult video footage, documents and
        witnesses when making its decision, and may additionally choose to
        consult any other potentially impacted party, in person or in writing.
        (i) Approved Video Footage – For purposes of review by the Jury of
              Appeal, only stationary, publicly available video recordings are
              considered acceptable. Examples include TiVo, Sideline Scout,
              Poolside Live, or official streaming services. Video recorded on
              personal devices (such as phones, tablets, or cameras operated by
              parents, coaches, athletes, or spectators) shall not be considered
              acceptable evidence.
    (5) Decisions of referees shall be afforded a significant degree of deference.
        The Jury of Appeal shall not substitute its view of the appealed matter
        for that of the referee unless the appellant presents clear evidence that
        the referee’s decision was made arbitrarily, irrationally, or in abuse of
        the discretion afforded to the referee.
    (6) Each member shall have one vote. The majority vote shall prevail. The
        decision of the Jury is final. Any allegations of eligibility violations are
        not subject to this Appeal Procedure and shall be handled by the Judge
        Commission.

  701.3 Determining Outcome
(a) The final places shall be determined by the total score, highest to lowest,
    obtained by each diver or synchro team in the preliminary, quarterfinal,
    semifinal, or final sessions, respectively.
(b) If two or more competitors or synchro teams obtain the same number of
    points in the same session, a tie shall be declared.




                                     ~ 50 ~
  701.4 Finalizing Results
(a) A contest shall be considered complete and the results final for all purposes
    30 minutes following the completion of the session.
(b) As detailed above, matters timely protested to the Competition Head
    Referee, within 30 minutes following the completion of the day’s events, are
    accepted.

   701.5 Review

    Decisions which, in the opinion of a referee, need clarification shall be
    submitted by the referee to the Committee for Competitive Excellence to be
    reviewed at a later time.

Article 702 - Duties of the Scoring Table
  702.1 Degrees of Difficulty and Allowed Dives
  (References for Scoring Table to Use as Needed)
(a) The degree of difficulty of each dive is calculated according to the following
    formula: DEGREE OF DIFFICULTY = A + B + C + D + E (as prescribed by
    tables for component values of formula in Appendix C).
(b) As a guide, a list of previously calculated dives with their numbers and
    degree of difficulties are listed in Appendix D.
(c) In calculating the degree of difficulty for dives with twists, the following
    need to be noted:
    (1) Dives with ½ somersault and twists can only be executed in position A,
         B or C;
    (2) Non-armstand dives with 1 or 1½ somersaults and twists can only be
         executed in position D;
    (3) Non-armstand dives with 2 or more somersaults and twists can only be
         executed in position B or C;
    (4) Armstand dives with 1, 1½, or 2 somersaults and one or more twists
         can only be executed in position D; and
    (5) Armstand dives with 2 ½ or more somersaults and twists can only be
         executed in positions B or C.

  702.2 Announcement of Diver and Dive

(a) Before each dive, the Meet Announcer shall announce the name of the diver
    and the dive which is to be executed. In competitions where different
    platforms are used, the height of the platform shall be announced. If a
    scoreboard is used and all information concerning the dive is displayed, the
    verbal announcement may be restricted to the identification of the diver.
(b) When a dive is incorrectly announced, the diver or their representative shall
    advise the Referee immediately, who shall then confirm the diver’s
    statement of dives.

    NOTE: Signed statements of dives for all competitors should be readily
    accessible by the referee for immediate resolution of dive
    announcement/display errors. These may be in the form of hard copy or
    electronically signed sheets.




                                    ~ 51 ~
  702.3 Recording and Calculating Scores
(a) Recording Judges’ Awards
    (1) In each diving contest, there shall be an Event Referee, judges, a
         secretary, two or more scoring table clerks, and an announcer. The use
         of a computerized scoring system may alter the number of scoring table
         personnel needed.
    (2) The scoring table clerks shall document each of the judges’ awards by
         placing them one by one in the same consecutive order on each score
         sheet, canceling the appropriate highest and lowest awards, then
         passing the score sheet to the secretary. Where two or more awards of
         those that are to be canceled are equal, either of them can be canceled.
         (i) In individual events, when seven judges are used, the two highest
               and two lowest awards will be canceled. When five judges are used
               only the highest and lowest awards will be canceled.
         (ii) In synchronized diving events, when eleven (11) judges are used,
               the highest and lowest awards given by the execution judges for
               each diver and the highest and lowest awards given for
               synchronization shall be canceled.
         (iii) When nine (9) judges are used, the highest and lowest awards
               given out of all four of the execution scores and the highest and
               lowest awards given for synchronization scores shall be canceled.
    (3) Electronically scored meets shall also use the procedure described in
         this section.
    (4) When possible, a computer programmed with adequate capability to
         produce a judging analysis shall be used.
(b) Calculating Scores in Individual and Mixed Team Events
    (1) After cancellation of the necessary high and low awards, the secretary
         shall announce the sum total of the remaining awards and the degree
         of difficulty to the calculator clerk, who shall compute the total points
         for that dive and shall announce the total points to the secretary. The
         secretary will then enter the points thus established on the score sheet.
    (2) Examples:

         Five (5) Judges: 6.0, 7.5, 7.5, 7.5, 7.5 = 22.5 x 2.0 = 45.00

         Seven (7) Judges: 6.0, 7.5, 6.5, 7.5, 7.5, 7.5, 7.5 = 22.5 x 2.0 = 45.00

    (3) When a judge has made no award for a particular dive, the average of
         the awards of the other judges shall be adopted as the missing award.
         The award shall be calculated up or down to the nearest half point or
         whole point. Averages ending in .01 to .24 shall be rounded down to
         the whole number. Averages ending in .25 to .74 shall be rounded to
         .50. Averages ending in .75 and higher shall be rounded up to the next
         whole number.

        NOTE: This rule is repeated in the Event Referee Rules Section, as both
        the Scoring Table and the Event Referee are involved with this process.

(c) Calculating Scores in Synchronized Diving Events
    (1) When five awards remain after the appropriate cancellation, the total of
        the five awards is then multiplied by the degree of difficulty using a 3/5
        calculator or multiplied by the degree of difficulty and then by 0.6, to
        obtain the equivalent of a three-judge score.



                                    ~ 52 ~
    (2) Examples:
        (i)    Nine (9) Judges:
               Execution Diver 1: 7.0, 6.5
               Execution Diver 2: 5.5, 5.5
               Synchro Awards: 8.5, 7.5, 8.0, 7.5, 8.0
               35.5 ÷ 5 x 3 = 21.3 x 2.8 = 59.64
         (ii) Eleven (11) Judges:
               Execution Diver 1: 7.0, 6.5, 6.0
               Execution Diver 2: 5.5, 5.5, 7.0
               Synchro Awards: 8.5, 7.5, 8.0, 7.5, 8.0
               35.5 ÷ 5 x 3 = 21.3 x 2.8 = 59.64
    (3) In synchronized diving events, there are many different scenarios in
         which a judge might make no award for a particular dive. In such
         cases, the Event Referee will coordinate with the Scoring Table to
         complete the following procedures:
         (i) In an eleven (11) judge synchronized diving panel, when an
               execution judge has made no award for a particular dive, the
               average of the other two execution judges of the same diver shall
               be adopted as the missing award.
         (ii) In a nine (9) judge panel, when an execution judge has made no
               award for a particular dive, the award of the other execution judge
               of the same diver shall be adopted as the missing award for that
               diver.
         (iii) When a synchronization judge, has made no award for a particular
               dive, the average of the other four synchronization judges shall be
               adopted as the missing award. The average award shall be
               rounded up or down to the nearest half point or whole point.
               Averages ending in .01 to .24 shall be rounded down to the whole
               number. Averages ending in .25 to .74 shall be rounded to .50.
               Averages ending in .75 or higher shall be rounded up to the next
               whole number.

             NOTE: This rule is repeated in the Event Referee Rules Section, as
             both the Scoring Table and the Event Referee are involved with
             this process.
(d) Displaying Judges’ Awards
    (1) A scoring device that shows the judges’ awards to the public is desired.


Article 703 - Duties of the Competition Head
               Referee in Conjunction with the
               Meet Referee Prior to Competition
  703.1 Judging Panel Selection Criteria at USA Diving
  Events
(a) General Practices in Judging Panel Selection
    (1) All USA Diving events at Region Championships, Zone Championships,
        East/West/Central Championships, and National Championships,
        including any qualifying meets, shall have a Competition Head Referee,
        who is a current AQUA certified judge, to oversee the entire event,
        particularly judging panel composition.




                                    ~ 53 ~
(2) Each judging panel shall comprise the referee, the judges, and may
     include assistants.
     (i) Whenever possible, seven (7) judges shall be used for Individual
           and Mixed Team events and eleven (11) judges for Synchronized
           Diving events, five judges of which shall judge the synchronization,
           three (3) of which shall judge the execution of one diver and three
           (3) the execution of the other diver.
     (ii) If circumstances make it impossible to have the ideal
           configurations for judging panels, Individual and Mixed Team
           events can be run with five- judge panels, and in extreme cases,
           three-judge panels, while synchronized diving events may be run
           with nine judges (four execution judges, two for each diver, and
           five who judge synchronization) or seven judges, all of whom judge
           both synchronization and execution.
     (iii) Parents, spouses, or siblings will not be permitted to judge or
           referee an event in which any offspring, spouse, or sibling
           competes. Two members of the same family will not be permitted
           to judge and/or be a referee on the same panel.
(3) Platform Referees/Balk Judges
     (i) For platform diving contests, the Competition Head Referee will
           designate a Platform Referee (commonly called a “balk judge”)
           who is charged with observing the divers’ takeoffs and notifying
           the Event Referee when a balk has occurred. The Platform Referee
           must be positioned to have a clear and unobstructed view of the
           divers and the platform surface throughout the takeoff. A camera
           and monitor may be used to fulfill this requirement.
(4) Judges who are selected for a contest are responsible for judging that
     entire contest. If a judge needs to be replaced for any reason, a
     replacement will be selected from a pool of alternates named by the
     Competition Head Referee. Every effort shall be made to replace an
     AQUA certified contracted judge with another judge of the same
     qualifications.
(5) Double Panels:
     (i) Should the total number of dives to be executed in one non-split-
           board session exceed 210, that session shall be divided into two
           or more sessions unless a double judges’ panel is used. For split-
           board sessions there shall be two panels that each judge the full
           event following the judging panel rotations prescribed by the
           specific event being judged (see section 701.3.f regarding Junior
           Competition Judging Panels).
     (ii) When considered suitable, double panels of seven or five judges
           may be used in individual events. If double panels are used, they
           should alternate after a maximum of three rounds of dives. If
           possible, each panel should judge the same total number of dives.

         NOTE: In exceptional circumstances, such as high temperature,
         high humidity, and a large field of entrants, the panels may be
         changed after the end of each round.
(6) Placement of Judges for Individual Events
     (i) The judges shall be placed by the referee close together and,
         preferably, divided evenly on both sides of the diving boards. They
         must maintain their respective places throughout the entire
         contest. If it is not possible to separate the judges, they shall be
         placed together on one side.



                                ~ 54 ~
    (ii) The position of each judge shall be identified by a distinctive
           number. Once placed, a judge shall not change position unless so
           directed by the referee, and then only in exceptional
           circumstances.
    (iii) No judge shall be seated inside the front edge of the springboard
           or platform.
    (iv) In the 1-meter springboard competitions deck level chairs shall be
           used for the judges.
    (v) In the 3-meter springboard competitions the judges shall be
           seated at a height of not lower than 1.5 meters (5 feet) above the
           water level.
    (vi) In platform competitions, when possible, the judges should be
           seated 1.5 meters (5 feet) or higher.
    (vii) To assist the judges in the 3-meter springboard and platform
           competitions, the judges’ seats must be positioned as far back
           from the pool as practical.
    (viii) If the judges must be placed on one side, they shall not be in one
           line but instead placed in two rows with one half plus one in the
           front row and the remaining judges on a second row in an elevated
           position above the first row so the second row of judges can see
           over the heads of the first row.
    (ix) The above procedures will be followed to the degree possible, but
           leeway is granted as needed given facility limitations




(7) Placement of Judges for Synchronized Diving Events
    (i)  In synchronized diving competition, the judges must be placed on
         both sides of the pool. There will always be five (5) synchronized
         judges per event.
    (ii) Three (3) or two (2) execution judges will be placed on each side
         of the springboard or platform by the Competition Head Referee
         based on the total number of judges used.



                               ~ 55 ~
    (iii) The synchronized judges will be placed in between the execution
          judges on each side of the pool.
    (iv) In synchronized diving competition, when possible, the judges
          seated closest to the pool edge shall be seated at a height of not
          lower than 1.5 meters (5 feet) above the water level.
    (v) The subsequent heights for the remaining synchronized judges (or
          additional execution judges) must increase by not less than 0.5
          meters (1' 6") per seat.
    (vi) The above procedures will be followed to the degree possible, but
          leeway is granted as needed given facility limitations
    (vii) In the event a seven-judge panel is used for a Synchronized Diving
          event, the judges shall be seated in clockwise order with four
          judges being on the side of the pool closest to the event
          equipment.




(8) Placement of Judges for Mixed Team Diving Events
    (i)  Placement of Judges for Mixed Team events will follow the
         prescriptions for the three-meter event but should include extra
         chairs or personnel to move chairs if the judges need to move
         further out so that no judge is seated inside the 10M tower’s edge
         for the platform portion of the event.
(9) Placement of Judges for Split Board Events
     (i) Judges in the front row judge dives done from the closer board.
         Judges in the back row judge dives done from the farther board
         and need to be seated higher chairs than the front row (taller
         chairs or chairs on a platform). Judge number one for each panel
         will be seated with direct line of sight just in front of the end of the
         diving boards.




                                 ~ 56 ~
(b) Region Championships, Zone Championships, and East/West/Central
    Championships
    (1) Competition Head Referees will be selected based on the invitation of
         the     Chair    of    the    Judges     Commission     after    seeking
         comment/suggestions from the Judges Commission.
    (2) Judges are to be selected by endorsement of a list prepared in advance
         by the Competition Head Referee or the referee’s designee. Insofar as
         possible, available judges shall be utilized to provide relatively equal
         geographic representation of the athletes according to team at a Region
         Championships and according to team and Region at a Zone
         Championships. Judges must be designated by team names (or by
         coach name if diver is unattached). In no case shall two judges from
         the same team be on the same panel, though if representation from
         different teams is not possible due to a limited number of judges, two
         judges from the same team may be utilized, with one sitting on each
         of the panels in a split board event.
    (3) Judging Panels A and B for split board events shall rotate according to
         the rules prescribed by the specific event being judged (see section
         701.3.c regarding Junior National Competition Judging Panels).
(c) Junior National Championships
    (1) The method of selecting judges at the Junior National Championships
         for the Individual Events shall be determined by the Judges
         Commission and may require potential judges to enter online with a
         designated meet management system.
    (2) Composition of Judging Panels for the Preliminaries and Semi-Finals of
         Individual Events:
         (i) In each Preliminary and Semi-Final event, there shall be two
              panels of seven judges (five if there are not enough judges to seat
              two seven-judge panels). Each panel shall have as many AQUA-
              certified contracted judges as possible and will be completed by
              coach-judges selected according to the following Zone rotation:
              ABCDEF. This rotation will be repeated throughout all events once
              all six Zone Championships have provided one judge for an event
              and repeated through all events.

                                    ~ 57 ~
     (ii) Whenever possible, no two judges on an event panel shall be from
           the same Region. If there are not enough judges to follow this
           rule, it is up to the discretion of the Competition Head Referee to
           implement the most fair and equitable judging situation.
     (iii) Coach-judges who must decline a panel assignment are
           responsible for finding a replacement judge from their Zone. If the
           coach-judge does not provide a replacement in a timely fashion,
           the Competition Head Referee will appoint a replacement judge at
           their discretion and is not bound to follow the original Zone
           representation with this appointment.
(3) Judging Panel Rotations for Preliminaries of Individual Events:
     (i) In the Preliminaries and Semi-Finals of each individual event at the
           Junior National Championships, there shall be an Event Referee
           (who shall also be Judge Number 1) in charge of each panel and
           two panels of seven judges (five if there are not enough judges to
           seat two seven-judge panels), each of which shall rotate according
           to the following schedule, with “Split Board” panels judging the
           entire event, alternately serving as Panel A and Panel B for each
           board according to the below rotations:
           1. In the Boys’ and Girls’ 11 & Under Platform contests (3 vols
                and 2 ops), the panels will rotate as follows: Panel A: rounds
                1, 2, and 5; Panel B: rounds 3, 4.
           2. In the Boys’ and Girls’ 11 & Under Springboard and the Girls’
                12-13 Platform contests (4 vols and 2 ops), the panels will
                rotate as follows: Panel A: rounds 1, 2, and 6; Panel B: rounds
                3, 4, 5.
           3. In the Girls’ 12-13 Springboard (5 vols, 2 ops), and the Boys’
                12-13 and Girls’ 14-15 Platform contests (4 vols, 3 ops), the
                panels will rotate as follows: Panel A: rounds 1, 2, and 5, 6;
                Panel B: rounds 3, 4, and 7. In the unlikely event that the
                dives without limit of DD must be performed first in a seven-
                dive contest, the panel rotation shall be the same.
           4. In the Boys’ 12-13 and Girls’ 14-15 Springboard (5 vols, 3
                ops) and the Boys’ 14-15 and Girls’ 16-18 Platform (4 vols, 4
                ops) contests, the panels will rotate as follows: Panel A:
                rounds 1, 2 and 5, 6; Panel B: rounds 3, 4, and 7, 8. In the
                unlikely event that the dives without limit of DD must be
                performed first in an eight-dive contest, the panel rotation
                shall be the same.
           5. In the Boys’ 14-15 and Girls’ 16-18 Springboard contests (5
                vols, 4 ops), the panels will rotate as follows: Panel A: rounds
                1, 2, 3, and 6, 7; Panel B: rounds 4, 5, and 8, 9. In the unlikely
                event that the dives without limit of DD must be performed
                first in a nine-dive springboard contest, the panels shall rotate
                as follows: Panel A: 1, 2, and 5, 6, 7; Panel B: 3, 4, and 8, 9.
           6. In Boy’s 16-18 Springboard contests (5 vols, 5 ops), the
                panels will rotate as follows: Panel A: rounds 1, 2, 3, and 7,
                8; Panel B: rounds 4, 5, 6, and 9, 10. In the unlikely event
                that the dives without limit of DD must be performed first in a
                10-dive springboard contest, the panels shall rotate as
                follows: Panel A: 1, 2, 3 and 6, 7; Panel B: 4, 5 and 8, 9, 10.




                                  ~ 58 ~
             7.    In the Boys’ 16-18 platform (4 vols, 5 ops) contests, the
                   panels will rotate as follows: Panel A: rounds 1, 2 and 5, 6, 7;
                   Panel B: rounds 3, 4 and 8, 9. In the unlikely event that the
                   dives without limit of DD must be performed first in a nine-
                   dive platform contest, the panels shall rotate as follows: Panel
                   A: 1, 2, 3, and 6, 7; Panel B: 4, 5, and 8, 9.
    (4) Judging Panels for Finals of Individual Events
         (i) The judging panel for the finals shall consist of a single panel of
              seven judges selected from the pool of AQUA-certified contracted
              judges at the meet.
    (5) Judging Panels for Synchronized Diving Events
         (i) Rule 703.1.a.1 applies to Judging Panels for the Synchronized
              Diving Events at Junior National Championship
         (ii) The judging panel for the finals shall consist of a single panel of
              AQUA-certified contracted judges.
(d) Senior National Championships
    (1) Judges at Senior National Championships will be selected based on the
         invitation of the Chair of the Judges Commission after seeking
         comment/suggestions from the Judges Commission.
    (2) Rule 703.1.a.1 applies to Judging Panels for the Individual,
         Synchronized Diving and Mixed Team Events at USA Diving Nationals.
    (3) When necessary, the Competition Head Referee shall appoint judges
         from the people present at the competition and willing to judge, with
         the caveat that they do not have an athlete in the contest. This shall
         happen as soon as possible before the start of each event, but no later
         than the performance of the first dive.

  703.2 Withdrawal from Competition
    If a diver is unable to compete at the beginning of any session, the diver
    ranked next shall advance to the next session, in order to have the
    prescribed number of divers in each session.

Article 704 - Duties of the Event Referee
  704.1 Jurisdiction Over Competition

(a) The Event Referee shall be in sole control of the contest and shall be located
    in a position so that he or she can manage the contest and ensure that the
    rules are observed and the statutory penalties are imposed.
(b) The Event Referee shall inspect the statement of dives. If the statement of
    dives does not comply with the rules, the referee shall have it corrected
    before the beginning of the competition. This inspection may be done via
    a computerized meet management system, but the Competition Head
    Referee is ultimately responsible for handling any errors on dive sheets and
    may hand this responsibility to the Event Referee(s) at his or her discretion.
(c) Affected divers and/or their representatives shall be informed, as soon as
    possible, of any decision made by the appropriate referee.




                                     ~ 59 ~
(d) The Event Referee shall designate assistants, as needed, to observe the
    performances of the divers.
    (1) The Assistant Referee for Individual Events shall be consulted by the
        Event Referee whenever the Event Referee feels that such consultation
        is warranted to make the best decision in a given situation. This
        includes calling failed dives, ruling on divers’ requests for restarts or
        re-dives, delay of contest, disruption of contest, and any other areas
        that fall under the jurisdiction of an Event Referee.
    (2) The Assistant Referee for synchronized diving events will be positioned
        on the opposite side of the pool from the referee to observe the
        performance of the diver on that side and call failed dives that the Event
        Referee may not see due to the second diver’s obstructing of their view.
    (3) The assistant Platform Referee (commonly called a “balk judge”) will
        observe divers on the platform if no camera is available and alert the
        Event Referee to any balk on an armstand dive that may not be readily
        seen from the Event Referee’s position.

  704.2 Starting Signal from Referee, Including Restarts
  and Repeated Dives
(a) The dive shall be executed after a signal given by the Event Referee. The
    signal shall not be given before the diver has assumed his or her position
    on the board or platform, has thrown down their chamois, and the referee
    has checked the indicator board or computer printout.
(b) After the signal is given by the referee, the diver shall proceed to the
    starting position for his or her dive. For standing and armstand takeoffs,
    the diver shall not proceed to the end of the springboard or platform until
    the signal has been given by the referee.
(c) An audible signal device shall not be used during simultaneous events.
(d) When a diver executes a dive before the signal is given, the Event Referee
    shall decide whether the dive shall be repeated.
(e) If an incorrectly announced dive is executed by a diver, the Event Referee
    may cancel it and have the correct dive announced and performed
    immediately. The awards for the first dive must be noted, should a protest
    be lodged.
    NOTE: Signed statements of dives take precedence over any information
    displayed or announced, and the Event Referee should have ready access
    to these signed statements of dives for immediate resolution of
    announcer/display errors. These may be in the form of hard copy or
    electronically signed sheets.
(f) The Event Referee may have a diver restart or repeat a dive upon request
    if, in the referee’s opinion, the execution of the dive was influenced by
    exceptional circumstances, such as an incorrectly announced dive, a diver’s
    performance of a dive before the signal, or a dive being affected by a strong
    wind or loud noise.
(g) A request for such a restart or repetition must be made immediately by the
    diver or the diver’s representative.
(h) When a repetition is granted, the first dive shall be judged and the marks
    noted, to be used if a protest is accepted.




                                    ~ 60 ~
  704.3 Postponement of Event
(a) In the case of unforeseen circumstances, the Referee may declare a short
    break, a postponement, or a discontinuation of the competition. If possible,
    the break should be done after a full round of dives.
(b) Following an interruption, the competition shall be continued from where it
    was stopped. The points scored before the interruption shall be carried
    forward into the remaining portion of the competition, whenever it is held.
    The final results must be based on the last complete round of dives.
    NOTE: If the competition cannot be continued, the result will be determined
    by the Jury of Appeal.

  704.4 Duties of an Event Referee During a Dive for
  Individual Diving Events and Individual Dives During
  Mixed Team Events
(a) Each diver shall be given sufficient time for the preparation and execution
    of the dive. When a diver has not executed an announced dive within one
    minute after the Event Referee has given a warning about unduly delaying
    a contest, the referee shall declare it a failed dive.
(b) When a diver refuses the execution of a dive, the Event Referee shall declare
    it a failed dive.
(c) When a diver stops a dive after commencing, it shall be deemed to be a
    restart, and the Event Referee shall deduct 2 points from the award of each
    judge. Commencement of a dive action is defined as follows for three
    different starting positions:
    (1) Standing dive: after the legs have commenced to press
    (2) Running dive: after the run has begun, including a cessation then
          continuation of forward movement and a backward step in the middle
          of a forward run.
    (3) Armstand dive: when, after both feet have left the platform, a diver
          loses balance and moves one hand or both hands from the original
          position from the front end of the platform, one or both feet return to
          the platform, or any part of their body other than their hands touches
          the platform.
(d) When a second attempt (a restart) after a balk is unsuccessful, the Event
    Referee shall declare it a failed dive
(e) When the final step of an approach is not from one foot, the Referee shall
    declare a failed dive.
(f) When the take-off from the springboard is not from both feet
    simultaneously, the referee shall declare it a failed dive.
(g) When the diver double bounces on the end of the springboard or double
    jumps on the end of the platform before takeoff, the referee shall declare a
    failed dive.
    NOTE: Double bounce or double jump: Two consecutive jumps from both
    feet where the feet leave the springboard or platform.
(h) When a diver performs a dive on a platform level other than announced,
    the Event Referee shall declare it a failed dive.
(i) When the Event Referee is certain that a diver has performed a dive of a
    number other than that announced, the referee shall declare it a failed dive.
(j) When a dive has a twist that is greater or less than that announced by 90
    degrees or more, the Event Referee shall declare it a failed dive.
(k) When, in head-first dives, the feet enter the water before the head or hands,
    the Event Referee shall declare it a failed dive.


                                    ~ 61 ~
(l) When, in feet-first dives, the head or hands enter the water before the feet,
    the Event Referee shall declare it a failed dive.
(m) When the Event Referee considers that assistance has been given by anyone
    to the diver after the starting signal, the referee shall declare it a failed
    dive.    After that signal, there shall be no other communication or
    interruption allowed, except that in Future Champions competition there
    may be communication with a penalty of a two-point deduction per judge’s
    award. Assistance between dives is permitted.
(n) When it is clear that the dive has been performed in a position other than
    that announced, the Event Referee shall repeat the announcement and
    declare that the maximum award shall be 2 points before giving the judges
    the signal to show their marks. If a judge then awards more than 2 points,
    the referee shall declare the award from that judge to be 2 points.
(o) When the majority of the judges award two (2) or fewer points to a dive
    they deem a diver is unsafely close to the springboard or platform or
    touches the end of the springboard or platform with his or her head, the
    Event Referee will declare that all awards above two (2) will be changed to
    two (2).
(p) NOTE: The judge’s evaluation that the dive is unsafely close shall be
    communicated by raising a hand in addition to awarding 2 or fewer points
    to the dive.
(q) When one or both arms are held above the head in a feet-first entry, or
    below the head in a head-first entry, the Event Referee shall declare the
    maximum award to be 4 ½ points. If a judge then awards more than 4½
    points, the Referee shall declare the award from that judge to be 4½ points.

      704.5 Duties of an Event Referee During a Dive for
      Synchronized Diving Events and Synchronized Dives
      During Mixed Team Events
(a) When a forward-facing synchronized dive on the springboard is not
    performed with a running approach, the Event Referee shall declare it a
    failed dive.
(b) When one diver enters the surface of the water before the other diver leaves
    the springboard or platform, the Event Referee shall declare a failed dive.
(c) When one or both divers perform a dive of a different number or position
    than that announced, the Event Referee shall declare it a failed dive.
(d) When all the synchronization judges award zero (0) points, the Event
    Referee shall declare the dive a failed dive.
(e) When there is a restart by one or both divers, the Event Referee shall
    declare a two-point deduction from all judges’ scores.

      704.6 Duties of an Event Referee During All Contests,
      Between Dives
(a) Once an event has begun, if it is discovered that a diver does not meet the
    degree of difficulty requirement or that contest, the Event Referee shall
    disqualify the diver.




                                    ~ 62 ~
(b) When, while judging an individual event, a judge has made no award for a
    particular dive, the Event Referee will coordinate with the Scoring Table to
    complete the following procedure: the average of the awards of the other
    judges shall be adopted as the missing award. The award shall be calculated
    up or down to the nearest half point or whole point. Averages ending in .01
    to .24 shall be rounded down to the whole number. Averages ending in .25
    to .74 shall be rounded to .50. Averages ending in .75 and higher shall be
    rounded up to the next whole number.
    NOTE: This rule is repeated in the Scoring Table Rules Section, as both the
    Scoring Table and the Event Referee are involved with this process.
(c) In synchronized diving events, there are many different scenarios in which
    a judge might make no award for a particular dive. In such cases, the Event
    Referee will coordinate with the Scoring Table to complete the following
    procedures:
    (1) In an eleven (11) judge synchronized diving panel, when an execution
         judge has made no award for a particular dive, the average of the other
         two execution judges of the same diver shall be adopted as the missing
         award.
    (2) In a nine (9) judge panel, when an execution judge has made no award
         for a particular dive, the award of the other execution judge of the
         same diver shall be adopted as the missing award for that diver.
    (3) When a synchronization judge has made no award for a particular dive,
         the average of the other four synchronization judges shall be adopted
         as the missing award. The average award shall be rounded up or down
         to the nearest half point or whole point. Averages ending in .01 to .24
         shall be rounded down to the whole number. Averages ending in .25 to
         .74 shall be rounded to .50. Averages ending in .75 or higher shall be
         rounded up to the next whole number.
         NOTE: This rule is repeated in the Scoring Table Rules Section, as both
         the Scoring Table and the Event Referee are involved with this process.
(d) If a diver participating in an event disturbs the contest, the Event Referee
    and/or Competition Head Referee may exclude that diver from that rest of
    that event. If a member of a team, a coach or an official disturbs a contest,
    the referees may exclude that person from the facility for a period of time
    up to the end of the entire competition.
(e) The Head Competition Referee or Event Referee may remove any judge
    from a session if the referee regards his or her judgment as unsatisfactory
    and may appoint another judge to replace him or her. Such a change of
    judge shall take place only at the end of a session or round of dives
    performed by each diver. At the end of the competition, the referee shall
    make a written report to the meet manager.
(f) When official live and direct visual technology is available, an Event Referee
    may review appropriate video immediately after a questioned dive to ensure
    that the correct dive has been performed.
(g) When an Event Referee feels a dive should be eliminated due to the
    possibility of undue danger to a diver, the referee will turn the matter over
    to the jury of appeal, which has the authority to eliminate any dive if, in the
    Head Referee’s opinion, circumstances exist which might place the diver in
    undue danger. Jury of appeal members includes the Head Referee, the
    Event Referee, and the Event Assistant Referee.




                                     ~ 63 ~
Article 705 - Judging Rules
  705.1 Judging Individual Events

(a) General Judging Considerations
    (1) Points shall be awarded from 0-10 in half-point increments according to
         the opinions of the judges and the following table:

                   Quality                         Award
                   Excellent                      10 points
                  Very Good                   8½ to 9½ points
                     Good                       7 to 8 points
                 Satisfactory                  5 to 6½ points
                   Deficient                  2½ to 4½ points
                Very Deficient                 ½ to 2 points
               Completely Failed                   0 points

    (2) When judging a dive, dives are to be compared to each other within a
         contest. Within this context, judges must not be influenced by any
         factor other than the technique and execution of the dive. The dive
         must be considered without regard to the approach to the starting
         position, the difficulty of the dive or any movement beneath the surface
         of the water.
    (3) When judges consider that a dive of a different number than that
         announced has been performed, they may award 0 points,
         notwithstanding that the Event Referee has not declared a failed dive.
    (4) After each dive, each judge shall immediately and simultaneously
         indicate his or her award in a distinct manner without communicating
         with any other judge. When an electronic judging device is used, the
         judges shall give their awards immediately after the performance of the
         dive.
(b) The elements to be considered when judging an individual dive are the
    technique and grace of the starting position and the approach, the takeoff,
    flight, and entry.
(c) Judging the Starting Position
    (1) When the signal is given by the Event Referee, the diver shall take the
         starting position. In the starting position the body shall be straight,
         head erect, with the arms straight in any position. When the body in
         the starting position is not straight, head erect, with the arms straight
         in any position, each judge shall deduct ½ to 2 points, according to
         their opinion.
    (2) The starting position in standing dives shall be assumed when the diver
         stands on the front end of the board or platform. A standing dive
         commences after the legs have commenced to press.
    (3) When, in a standing dive, the feet leave the springboard or the platform
         before the takeoff the judge shall deduct ½ to 2 points
         NOTE: This rule also appears in the “Judging the Takeoff” section, but
         deductions should not be applied twice for the same error.
    (4) The starting position in a running dive shall be assumed when the diver
         is ready to take the first step of the run.
         (i) Running dives commence when the foot that takes the first step
              leaves the starting position.




                                    ~ 64 ~
    (5) The starting position in an armstand dive shall be assumed when both
         hands are on the front end of the platform and at least one foot is still
         on the platform.
         (ii) An armstand dive commences when both feet have left the
               platform.
         (iii) When, in an armstand dive, the hands leave the platform before
               the takeoff for a reason other than losing balance, the judge shall
               deduct ½ to 2 points.
         (iv) NOTE: this rule has a redundant one in the “approach” section, as
               it contains elements of errors in an “armstand approach” as well
               as a potential error before takeoff.
(d) Judging the Approach
    (1) When executing a running dive from the springboard or the platform,
         the run shall be smooth and in a forward direction to the end of the
         springboard or platform, with the final step being from one foot.
         (i) When the run is not smooth and in a forward direction to the end
               of the springboard or platform, the judges shall deduct ½ to 2
               points, according to their opinions.
    (2) When the diver double bounces on the end of the springboard or double
         jumps on the end of the platform before takeoff, a judge may award a
         score of 0, notwithstanding that the Event Referee has not declared it
         a failed dive.
         (i) Double bounce or double jump: Two consecutive jumps from both
               feet where the feet leave the springboard or platform.
    (3) When, in an armstand dive, a stationary and steady balance in the
         straight vertical position is not shown, or if the hands lose contact with
         the platform during the takeoff, each judge shall deduct from ½ to 2
         points.
         (i) This rule has a redundant one in the starting position section, as it
               contains elements of a potential error before takeoff as well as
               errors during an “armstand approach.”
(e) Judging the Take-off
    (1) The take-off in forward and reverse dives may be performed either
         standing or running at the option of the diver.
    (2) The take-off in backward and inward dives must be performed standing.
    (3) The take-off from the springboard and platform for all take-offs,
         whether standing or running, shall be from both feet simultaneously.
    (4) When a take-off from the springboard or platform is not from both feet
         simultaneously, judges may award a score of 0, notwithstanding that
         the Event Referee has not declared it a failed dive.
    (5) When, in a standing dive, the feet leave the springboard or the platform
         before the takeoff the judge shall deduct ½ to 2 points
    (6) NOTE: This rule also appears in the “Judging the Starting Position”
         section, but deductions should not be applied twice for the same error.
    (7) In running and standing dives, the take-off shall be balanced and high
         and shall be from the end of the board or platform.
         (i) When the take-off is not balanced and high or is not from the end
               of the board or platform, judges shall deduct ½ to 2 points
               according to their opinions.
         (ii) NOTE: In armstand multiple-somersaulting dives, the take-off
               shall be balanced and shall have a pushing start to a high takeoff
               analogous to a standing dive’s take-off. In simple armstand dives
               involving one somersault or fewer, such a pushing start is not
               required.



                                     ~ 65 ~
           (iii) When the take-off is not balanced and high on multiple-
                 somersaulting armstand dives, judges ought to follow the same
                 deduction process as they would on dives that take off from the
                 feet.
      (8) In dives with a twist, the twisting shall not be manifestly done from the
           springboard or platform, meaning the twist is started prior to the
           takeoff.
           (i) If the twisting is manifestly done from the springboard or platform,
                 each judge shall deduct ½ to 2 points, according to their opinion.
(f)   Judging the Flight
      (1) During the execution of a dive, the dive shall be in direct line of flight,
           moving straight forward from the takeoff position and staying square
           to the board and in front of the board through the entry. If, during the
           execution of a dive, a diver dives to the side of the direct line of flight,
           each judge shall deduct according to his/her opinion.
      (2) If, during the execution of a dive, a diver touches the end of the
           springboard or platform with his or her feet or hands, the judges shall
           deduct according to their opinions.
      (3) If, during the execution of a dive, where visual technology is
           unavailable, a diver is unsafely close to the springboard or platform or
           touches the end of the springboard or platform with his or her head,
           the judges shall award up to a maximum of 2 points.
      (4) The dive can be executed in the following positions: straight (A), pike
           (B), tuck (C), and free (D). Should any of these positions not be
           aesthetically pleasing and shown as described in the below rules, each
           judge shall deduct ½ to 2 points, according to his/her opinion.
           (i) Straight (A)
                 1. In the straight position, the body shall not be bent either at
                      the knees or hips. The feet shall be together, and the toes
                      pointed. The position of the arms is at the option of the diver.
                 2. In all flying dives a straight position shall be clearly shown and
                      that position shall be assumed from the takeoff or after one
                      somersault. When the straight position is not shown for at
                      least one quarter of a somersault (90 degrees) in dives with
                      one somersault and at least one half of a somersault (180
                      degrees) in dives with more than one somersault, the
                      maximum award by the judges shall be 4½ points.
           (ii) Pike (B)
                 1. In the pike position, the body shall be bent at the hips, but
                      the legs must be kept straight at the knees, the feet shall be
                      together, and the toes pointed. The position of the arms is at
                      the option of the diver.
           (iii) Tuck (C)
                 1. In the tuck position, the body shall be compact, bent at the
                      knees and hips with the knees and feet close together within
                      the body line of the shoulders. The hands shall be on the lower
                      legs and the toes pointed.
           (iv) Free Position (D)
                 1. In the free position, the body position is optional (A, B, or C)
                      but should match the above descriptions.
      (5) When a dive is performed in a position clearly other than that
           announced, the highest award for such a dive is 2 points,
           notwithstanding that the Event Referee has not declared a maximum
           award of 2 points for the dive.



                                       ~ 66 ~
    (6) When a dive is performed in a position partially other than that
         announced, each judge shall deduct according to his/her opinion.
(g) Judging the Entry
    (1) The entry into the water shall in all cases be vertical, or nearly so, not
         twisted, not cast to one side, with the body straight, the feet together
         and the toes pointed. When the entry is short or over, twisted, cast to
         one side, the body not straight, the feet not together, or the toes not
         pointed, the judges shall deduct according to their opinions.
    (2) In head-first entries, the arms shall be stretched beyond the head and
         in line with the body, with the hands close together. If one or both arms
         are held below the head on entry, the maximum award shall be 4 ½
         points.
    (3) In feet-first entries, the arms shall be close to the body. If one or both
         arms are held beyond the head on entry, the maximum award shall be
         4 ½ points.
    (4) Other than as provided for above, when the arms are not in the correct
         position in either the head-first or feet-first entry, all judges shall
         deduct from ½ to 2 points from their awards.
    (5) The dive is considered completed when the whole of the body is under
         the surface of the water.
    (6) When, as the last part of the body enters the water, a twist is greater
         or less than that announced by 90 degrees or more, the judge may
         award a score of 0, notwithstanding that the Event Referee has not
         declared it to be a failed dive.

  705.2 Judging Synchronized Diving Events
(a) General Judging Considerations
    (1) The rules for individual diving shall also apply to the execution of dives
        in synchronized diving, except where otherwise stated in these rules.
    (2) When judging synchronized diving, dives are to be compared to each
        other within a contest. Within this context, the overall impression of
        the synchronicity of the dives in terms of only seeing “one dive” must
        be taken into account and the dives must be vertical.                 The
        synchronization judges must not be influenced by any other factor
        other than the coordinated performance of the two divers and not the
        execution of both dives.
(b) The five elements to be considered in judging synchronization are the:
    (1) Starting position and the approach; take-off, including the similarity of
        the height.
    (2) Coordinated timing of the movements during the flight.
    (3) Similarity of the vertical angles of the entries.
    (4) Comparative distance from the board and platform of the entry.
    (5) Coordinated timing of the entries.
    (6) When any of the above aspects of synchronization are found lacking,
        the synchronization judges shall deduct from ½ to 2 points, according
        to their opinions.
(c) Within synchronized diving, dives are to be compared to each other within
    a contest. Within this context, the execution judges must not be influenced
    by any factor other than the technique and execution of the dive – not both
    dives, and not the synchronization of the divers.




                                    ~ 67 ~
(d) When an execution judge considers that a dive of a different number or
    position than announced has been performed by a diver, the judge may
    award 0 points, notwithstanding that the Event Referee has not declared a
    failed dive. If all execution judges of one diver award 0 points, the referee
    shall declare the dive failed.
(e) When a forward-facing dive is not performed with a running approach, a
    judge may award a score of 0, notwithstanding that the Event Referee has
    not declared it a failed dive.
(f) When one diver enters the surface of the water before the other diver leaves
    the springboard or platform, a judge may award a score of 0,
    notwithstanding that the Event Referee has not declared it a failed dive.
(g) When one or both divers perform a dive of a different number or position
    than that announced, a judge may award a score of 0, notwithstanding that
    the Event Referee has not declared it a failed dive.

Article 706 – Judging criteria specific to Future
              Champions
(a) Scoring for all skills and dives is based on technical merit, form,
    accuracy, height, distance and aesthetic value during all phases
    (approach, takeoff, flight, entry) of each skill or dive.

    (1)   Approach:
          (i) All skills and dives may be performed standing (with or without an
                arm swing) or with a hurdle approach (forward and reverse
                categories only, including forward and reverse twister
                jumps/dives).
          (ii) All dives or skills performed must show a clear starting position
                prior to initiating an arm swing or jump. See Section 702 for
                information on Starting Position.
          (iii) All line-up skills (001, 002) MUST be performed from the end of the
                board and without a jump in all levels.
          (iv) The diver MUST show a clear starting position on the board before
                initiating any line-up
                1. The starting position of any line-up is to be considered the
                      position of the skill
                2. i.e. Sitting tuck line-up with a pike out prior to entry is
                      considered a line-up in the tuck position (001C)

    (2)   Take-Off:
          (i) The diver must show balance and control during the approach and
                take-off.
          (ii) The take-off should be bold and confident from the end of the
                board from two feet either standing at the end of the board with a
                double jump (two legged jump and takeoff) or with a hurdle
                approach of any number of steps.
          (iii) The diver should show a vertical body line and full reach extension
                of the arms directly over the head in an upright position as the
                diver leaves the board.
                1. When a diver fails to show a full reach extension on the jump
                     prior to initiating the tuck or pike position, the judges shall
                     deduct ½ to 2 points at the judges’ discretion.




                                     ~ 68 ~
(3)   Flight of the Dive:
      (i) All positions during the flight phase of the dive should be in a sharp
            and concise motion following both AQUA and USAD rules for each
            position.
      (ii) All line-ups must be in either straight, tuck, or pike position. The
            “free” position is not used for any line-up, jump or twisting jump.
      (iii) All skills and dives should be performed at a safe distance of 2 to
            4 feet from the end of the diving board.

(4)   Entry:
      (i) The diver should show a tight body-line on the entry into the water
           by either a feet-first entry or a head-first entry.
      (ii) All head-first entries should show a vertical body-line with the
           hands grabbed and arms fully extended over the head.

(5)   Mandatory Scoring & Deductions:
      (i) Coach-Assist Dive or Skill (verbal call-out or hand spot by a coach)
            – 2pt. deduction from each judges’ score.
      (ii) Clearly Wrong Position of a Dive or Skill – Maximum of 2
            (Unsatisfactory) points for each judges’ score (per USAD & AQUA
            Rules).
      (iii) Partially Wrong Position of a Dive or Skill – Maximum of 4 ½
            (Deficient) points for each judges’ score (per USAD & AQUA Rules).
      (iv) Failed Dive or Skill – Follow USAD & AQUA Rules.
      (v) Dive or Skill Performed Unsafely Close to the Diving Board –
            Maximum of 2 (Unsatisfactory) points for each judges’ score
            (AQUA Rule).




                                 ~ 69 ~
